syllabus.md, before:

---
title: "Syllabus"
---

# Syllabus

Jump to:

- [About Dept 999](#about-dept-999)
  - [Goals](#goals)
  - [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)


(about-dept-999)=
# About Dept 999

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Curabitur interdum dolor neque, non dignissim augue semper id. Ut aliquam turpis ultrices velit commodo posuere. Phasellus id lobortis urna. Vivamus non purus mollis, pellentesque ligula at, posuere justo. Pellentesque nibh dolor, venenatis non ex a, aliquam semper ligula. Nullam at magna sem. Aliquam ornare orci non consequat convallis. Class aptent taciti sociosqu ad litora torquent per conubia nostra, per inceptos himenaeos. Nullam libero lorem, tempus non laoreet ut, porttitor ac enim. Nunc viverra, purus vel vestibulum ultricies, ex eros pharetra ipsum, quis semper sapien elit eget dolor. Aenean id erat erat. Aenean id quam sit amet eros pellentesque volutpat ac vitae diam. Praesent lobortis tellus augue, nec dignissim mi vulputate non. Praesent ut venenatis est, ut lobortis felis. Vestibulum fermentum fermentum eros, quis molestie lacus.

Sed nisi ante, gravida finibus faucibus eget, faucibus eu risus. Pellentesque habitant morbi tristique senectus et netus et malesuada fames ac turpis egestas. Etiam dictum, dolor id porttitor venenatis, elit leo tincidunt ipsum, id condimentum mauris nibh ut diam. Pellentesque ultricies ultrices pharetra. Morbi egestas est quis enim fermentum pulvinar quis eget enim. Orci varius natoque penatibus et magnis dis parturient montes, nascetur ridiculus mus. In hac habitasse platea dictumst. Nunc pellentesque laoreet turpis, at sagittis magna congue at. In convallis porttitor fringilla. Donec ullamcorper fermentum bibendum. Proin a erat eget magna faucibus lacinia. Aenean ac nibh ante. Vestibulum viverra hendrerit ipsum vitae lobortis. Maecenas eget sem vitae est finibus bibendum. Nam euismod a risus sit amet interdum.

(goals)=
## Goals

- Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit.
- Mauris rutrum ligula nec gravida sollicitudin.
- Phasellus sagittis justo sit amet odio consequat, ut viverra purus mattis.

(prerequisites)=
## Prerequisites

While we are working to make this class widely accessible, we currently require the following (or equivalent) prerequisites. **Prerequisites will be enforced in Dept 999. It is your responsibility to know the material in the prerequisites.**

Commit message:

Integrate content from datasciencey site.

syllabus.md, after:

---
title: "Syllabus"
---

## Course Description

Stat 131A is an upper-division course that follows Data 8 or STAT 20. The course will teach a broad range of statistical methods that are used to solve data problems, including group comparisons, standard parametric statistical models, multivariate data visualization, multiple linear regression and classification, classification and regression trees, and random forests. Students will be introduced to the widely used R statistical language and they will obtain hands-on experience in implementing a range of statistical methods on numerous real world datasets.

Basically this course covers the fundamental concepts, practical “hammers”, and accompanying implementation skills that will inevitably surface in any real-world data science project and for any domain.


## Topics

 - Distributional Summary of Data. {span .text-gray-500}`2.1`
 - Visualization (Boxplots, Histograms, etc.). {span .text-gray-500}`2.1`
 - Discrete and continuous distributions. Normal Distribution, Central Limit Theorem. {span .text-gray-500}`2.1, 2.3, 2.4.3`
 - Probability. Bayes’ theorem. Naive Bayes algorithm. {span .text-gray-500}`2.1`
 - Sampling distributions. Bootstrapping. {span .text-gray-500}`2.4`
 - Confidence intervals. Parametric hypothesis testing. {span .text-gray-500}`3`
 - Hypothesis testing. Type I and II errors. {span .text-gray-500}`3`
 - Linear regression. {span .text-gray-500}`4.1–4.3, 6`
 - Explanation: Feature generation. Transformations. {span .text-gray-500}`6`
 - Evaluation: Cross-validation. Bias-variance tradeoff. Logistic regression. Classification error metrics. {span .text-gray-500}`7, 7.5`
 - Non-parametric methods. Kernel density estimation (KDE). {span .text-gray-500}`2.5, 4.4–4.5`
 - Principal components analysis (PCA). {span .text-gray-500}`5`
 - Clustering. {span .text-gray-500}`5.4`
 - Decision trees. Random Forests. {span .text-gray-500}`8`
 - Causal Inference
 - Project prep
  
## Grades

## Academic Honesty Policy

Homework and projects must be completed independently, with the following exceptions:

 - You may discuss specific issues/questions you have about the homework at a high level, but you must not sit down and do the assignment jointly.
 - Giving advice about code or coding tips is also not cheating, but you cannot directly share code with other classmates.

For exams, cheating includes, but is not limited to, using electronic materials in an exam beyond that allowed, copying off another person’s exam or quiz, allowing someone to copy off of your exam or quiz, and having someone take an exam or quiz for you.

Requesting, obtaining, and/or using solutions from previous years or from the internet or other sources, if such happen to be available, is considered cheating. In fairness to students who put in an honest effort, cheaters will be harshly treated.

 - Any evidence of cheating will result in a score of zero (0) on the entire assignment or examination, and perhaps a failing grade in the class.
 - We will always report incidences of cheating to the Office of Student Conduct, which may administer additional punishment.
